Webservice tutorial (#507)
PrestaShop/docs: src/content/1.7/development/webservice/tutorials/4-advanced-use/additional-list-parameters.md

---
title: Additional list parameters
weight: 1
---

# Additional list parameters

> Previous tutorials only use simple list that return the IDs of the resources, but you can actually get more details, sort and filter the list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Previous tutorials only use simple list that returns the IDs of the resources, but you can actually get more details, sort and filter the list.
```

## Display parameter

> You can define which field of each resource you are expecting with the `display` parameter

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can specify which fields you want for each resource using the `display` parameter.
```

| Key         | Value               | Result                                              |
|-------------|---------------------|-----------------------------------------------------|
| **display** | `full`                | Returns all the fields of the resource            |

> |             | `[field1,field2,...]` | Returns the list of fields specified in the array |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|             | `[field1,field2,...]` | Returns only the fields specified in this array |
```

| Result | API call | PHP Webservice lib options |
|--------|----------|----------------------------|
| Include *all* fields from the `products` resource | `/api/products/?display=full` | {{< code php >}}$opt = array(
    'resource' => 'products',
    'display'  => 'full'
);{{< /code >}} |
| Include only the *ID* from the `carriers` resource | `/api/carriers/?display=[id]` | {{< code php >}}$opt = array(
    'resource' => 'carriers',
    'display'  => '[id]'
);{{< /code >}} |
| Only include the *name* and *value* fields from the `configurations` resource | `/api/configurations/?display=[name,value]` | {{< code php >}}$opt = array(
    'resource' => 'configurations',
    'display'  => '[name,value]'
);{{< /code >}} |

## Filter parameter

You can filter the expected resulted with the `filter` parameter

| Key               | Value                               | Result                                                              |
|-------------------|-------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------|

> | **filter[field]** | {{< code >}}[1|5]{{< /code >}} | `OR` operator: list of possible values                              |
> |                   | {{< code >}}[1,10]{{< /code >}}     | `Interval` operator: define interval of possible values             |
> |                   | {{< code >}}[John]{{< /code >}}     | `Literal` value (not case sensitive)                                |
> |                   | {{< code >}}[Jo]%{{< /code >}}      | `Begin` operator: fields begins with the value (not case sensitive) |
> |                   | {{< code >}}%[hn]{{< /code >}}      | `End` operator: fields ends with the value (not case sensitive)     |
> |                   | {{< code >}}%[oh]%{{< /code >}}     | `Contains` operator: fields contains the value (not case sensitive) |

Reviewer: Use backticks:

```suggestion
| **filter[field]** | `[1|5]`      | `OR` operator: list of possible values                              |
|                   | `[1,10]`     | `Interval` operator: define interval of possible values             |
|                   | `[John]`     | `Literal` value (not case sensitive)                                |
|                   | `[Jo]%`      | `Begin` operator: fields begins with the value (not case sensitive) |
|                   | `%[hn]`      | `End` operator: fields ends with the value (not case sensitive)     |
|                   | `%[oh]%`     | `Contains` operator: fields contains the value (not case sensitive) |
```

Author: Actually I had to add this shortcode because the `` notation breaks the table when there special characters like `|` (maybe on others but this one I'm sure) So I tried using an html character notation but it doesn't work in ``

With the shortcode it works fine, it's even more necessary when you need to display pieces of code on multiline inside the table

So in this case I actually only need it for `[1|5]` but I prefered to keep it on other lines for consistency, I can use it on the first line only if you prefer

| Result | API call | PHP Webservice lib options |
|--------|----------|----------------------------|

> | Only the `customers` whose ids are 1 or 5 | {{< code >}}/api/customers/?filter[id]=[1|5]{{< /code >}} | {{< code php >}}$opt = array(
>     'resource' => 'customers',
>     'filter[id]'  => '[1|5]'
> );{{< /code >}} |
> | Only the `customers` whose ids are between 1 and 10 | {{< code >}}/api/customers/?filter[id]=[1,10]{{< /code >}} | {{< code php >}}$opt = array(
>     'resource' => 'customers',
>     'filter[id]'  => '[1,10]'
> );{{< /code >}} |
> | Only the `customers` whose first name is "John" | {{< code >}}/api/customers/?filter[firstname]=[John]{{< /code >}} | {{< code php >}}$opt = array(
>     'resource' => 'customers',
>     'filter[firstname]' => '[John]',
> );{{< /code >}} |
> | Only the `manufacturers` whose name begins with "Appl" | {{< code >}}/api/manufacturers/?filter[firstname]=[John]{{< /code >}} | {{< code php >}}$opt = array(
>     'resource' => 'manufacturers',
>     'filter[name]' => '[appl]%',
> );{{< /code >}} |

Reviewer: Use backticks when possible

```suggestion
| Only the `customers` whose ids are 1 or 5 | `/api/customers/?filter[id]=[1|5]` | {{< code php >}}$opt = array(
    'resource' => 'customers',
    'filter[id]'  => '[1|5]'
);{{< /code >}} |
| Only the `customers` whose ids are between 1 and 10 | `/api/customers/?filter[id]=[1,10]` | {{< code php >}}$opt = array(
    'resource' => 'customers',
    'filter[id]'  => '[1,10]'
);{{< /code >}} |
| Only the `customers` whose first name is "John" | `/api/customers/?filter[firstname]=[John]` | {{< code php >}}$opt = array(
    'resource' => 'customers',
    'filter[firstname]' => '[John]',
);{{< /code >}} |
| Only the `manufacturers` whose name begins with "Appl" | `/api/manufacturers/?filter[firstname]=[John]` | {{< code php >}}$opt = array(
    'resource' => 'manufacturers',
    'filter[name]' => '[appl]%',
);{{< /code >}} |
```

Author: Same here, the `code` is required in the first line, but I can use backquotes on others

## Sort parameter

You can sort the expected resulted with the `sort` parameter

| Key      | Value | Result |
|----------|-------|--------|

> | **sort** | {{< code >}}[{fieldname}_{ASC|DESC}]{{< /code >}} | The `sort` value is composed of a field name and the expected order separated by a `_` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **sort** | `[{fieldname}_{ASC|DESC}]` | The `sort` value is composed of a field name and the expected order separated by a `_` |
```

Author: This one is necessary because of the `|`

| Result | API call | PHP Webservice lib options |
|--------|----------|----------------------------|

> | Sort the `customers` in alphabetical order according to last name | {{< code >}}/api/customers/?sort=[lastname_ASC]{{< /code >}} | {{< code php >}}$opt = array(
>     'resource' => 'customers',
>     'sort'  => '[lastname_ASC]'
> );{{< /code >}} |
> | Sort the `customers` in alphabetical order according to last name, then by biggest ID first | {{< code >}}/api/customers/?sort=[lastname_ASC,id_DESC]{{< /code >}} | {{< code php >}}$opt = array(
>     'resource' => 'customers',
>     'sort'  => '[lastname_ASC,id_DESC]'
> );{{< /code >}} |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Sort the `customers` in alphabetical order according to last name | `/api/customers/?sort=[lastname_ASC]` | {{< code php >}}$opt = array(
    'resource' => 'customers',
    'sort'  => '[lastname_ASC]'
);{{< /code >}} |
| Sort the `customers` in alphabetical order according to last name, then by biggest ID first | `/api/customers/?sort=[lastname_ASC,id_DESC]` | {{< code php >}}$opt = array(
    'resource' => 'customers',
    'sort'  => '[lastname_ASC,id_DESC]'
);{{< /code >}} |
```
